Olorgesailie: a study of the natural history of a middle Pleistocene lake basin.
Layer by layer, the history of man is being uncovered in eastern Africa.
Precision and definition in African archaeology: implications for archaeology of the recommendaions of the 29th Wenner Gren symposium ‘Systematic Investigation of the African Later Tertiary and Quaternary’.
The stratigraphy of the Peninj Beds and the provenance of the Natron Australopithecine mandible.
An annotated list of the most important palaeontological (mammalian) and archaeological assemblages associated with the Rift valleys of Kenya.
The middle and later Stone Age in Africa.
The geological history of the Olorgesailie area.
New evidence from Olorgesailie relating to the character of Acheulean occupation sites.
Olorgesailie: an investigaion into the natural history of early men.
Review of Southern Africa during the Iron Age, by B. M. Fagan.
The stratigraphy of the Peninj Group: early Middle Pleistocene formations west of Lake Natron, Tanzania.
Towards the interpretation of occupation debris: some experiments and observations.
Traces of Pleistocene hunters: an East African example.
Divisions within the Acheulian of Eastern Africa: Some interpretative suggestions.
The Acheulean site complex at Olorgesailie, Kenya: a contribution to the interpretation of Middle Pleistocene culture in East Africa.
Note on the proportional frequency of side- and end-struck flakes.
Review of Kalambo Falls Prehistoric Site, Vol. 1, by J. D. Clark with contributions by G. H. Cole, E. G. Haldemann, M. R. Kleindienst and E. M. van Zinderen Bakker. Cambridge, Cambridge University Press
Review of 'Culture traditions and environment of early man' by D. Collins in Current Anthropology 10: 267-96
Studies of early culture in East Africa.
COWA surveys and bibliographies, Area 14, No. IV, East Africa.
COWA surveys and bibliographies, Area 12 No. IV, 1969, Equatorial Africa.
Preliminary report on the work of the University of California Archaeological Research Group in Kenya 1969-1970 (unpublished).
Whither archaeology?
The diet of early man: aspects of archaeological evidence from lower and middle Pleistocene sites in East Africa.
Review of The Emergence of Man, by J. Pfeiffer. New York: Harper and Row, 1969.
Review of Aboriginal Man and Environment in Australia, edited by D. J. Mulvaney and J. Golson. Canberra: Australian National University Press, 1971
Archaeological traces of early hominid activities, east of Lake Rudolf, Kenya.
Radiocarbon Dating of East African Lake Levels
Early Phases of human behavior: models in Lower Palaeolithic archaeology.
Chronology and the tempo of cultural change during the Pleistocene.
Identification of cultural entities in the Middle Pleistocene.
Some experiments in quantitative methods for characterizing assemblages of Acheulian artefacts.
Comparative studies of Pleistocene site locations in East Africa.
Review of Olduvai Gorge. Vol. 3: Excavations in Beds I and II 1960-1963 by M. D. Leakey. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1971
Hominid fossils from the area east of Lake Rudolf, Kenya: photographs and a commentary on context.
Stratigraphic and archaeological studies in the Lake Nakuru basin, Kenya.
Meat-Eating and human evolution: Aspects of the Archaeological Evidence from East Africa (unpublished).
Stratigraphy and patterns of culture change in the middle Pleistocene.
Form and design: aspects of rule systems in the Pleistocene. Paper delivered at the Annual Meeting.
Paleomagnetic stratigraphy and chrnology of hominid-bearing sediments east of Lake Rudolf, Kenya.
Age of early Acheulian industries from the Peninj Group, Tanzania.
After the Australopithecines
Sorting out the muddle in the middle: an anthropologist's post-conference appraisal.
Stratigraphy and cultural patterns in East Africa during the middle ranges of Pleistocene time.
The scatter between the patches.
Africa.
Les Plus Ancienne Industries en Afrique
EArliest Man and Environments in the Lke Rudolf Basin: Stratigraphy, Paleoecology and Evolution
The Karari Inductry: Early Pleistocene archaeological evidence from the terrain east of Lake Turkana, Kenya
Early stone tools - an adaptive threshold?
Perspectives on Human Evolution: East Africa and Paleoanthropology
Traces of early hominid activities from the Lower Member of the Koobi Fora Formation, Kenya.
From East Africa: fragments of man's prehistory.
The activities of early African hominids: a review of archaeological evidence from the time span two and a half to one million years ago.
Early hominids in action: a commentary on the contribution of archaeology to understanding of the fossil record in East Africa.
A brief report on Quaternary stratigraphy in Kenya.
East Africa as a source of fossil evidence for human evolution.
Plio-Pleistocene artifact assemblages from East Rudolf, Kenya.
Researches in the area formerly known as "East Rudolf": a commentary and classified bibliography.
Stages of cultural elaboration in the Pleistocene: possible archaeological indicators of the development of language capabilities.
Reversal stratigraphy and its application at East Rudolf.
Archaeological evidence from the Koobi Fora Formation.
East Rudolf: an introduction to the abundance of new evidence
Human Origins: Louis Leakey and the East African Evidence.
Squeezing blood from stones: comments on the importance of Australian data for the promotion of realism in 'Stone Age' studies. Notes towards discussion of general issues and of issues raised by contributions.
Olorgesailie: Archaeological Studies of a Middle Pleistocene Lake Basin in Kenya.
The food-sharing behavior of protohuman hominids
The archaeological evidence for the activities of early African hominids.
Early man reviewed.
The first geologists: the archaeology of the original rock breakers.
The Olorgesailie Formation: stratigraphy, tectonics and the palaeogeographic context of the middle Pleistocene archaeological sites.
Food-sharing and human evolution: archaeological evidence from the Plio-Pleistocene of East Africa.
Archaeology (ch. 4)
Review of People of the Eland: Rock Paintings of the Drakensberg Bushmenas a Reflection of their Life and Thought, by P. Vinnicombe. Pietermaritzburg: University of Natal Press, 1976
The philosophy of archaeology
Evolutionary hyptoheses: commentary on Parker ang Gibson
Human Ancestors: Readings from Scientific American
FxJj 50: an early Pleistocene site in northern Kenya.
Evidence for predation and pastoralism from a Pastoral Neolithic site in Kenya
Casting the net wide: a review of archaeological evidence for early hominid land-use and ecological relations.
The emergence of Man (A report on a Royal Society and British Academy Meeting)
Review of 'Time and place: some observations on spatial and temporal patterning in the later Stone Age sequence in southern Africa, by J. Parkington. South African Archaeological Bulletin, 35: 73-83
Comment on time and place.
A method for determining the characteristics of artefacts between sites in the Upper Member of the Koobi Fora Formation, East Lake Turkana.
Early Pleistocene site locations at Koobi Fora, Kenya
Pattern of the Past
Archaeological tests of alternative models of early hominid behavior: excavation and experiments.
Hoe leefden onze voorouders?
Analytical archaeology (A review).
Foreword to The Biology of Love, by S. L. W. Mellon, vii-x. San Francisco: Freeman.
The early development of protohuman sociocultural behavior, a comment on 'The Origin of man' by C. O. Lovejoy, in Science 211: 341-50
Stone age visiting cards: approaches to the study of early land-use patterns
Las Industrias mas Antiguas.
To what extent were early hominids carnivorous? An archaeological perspective.
Small is informative: the application of the study of mini-sites and least-effort criteria in the interpretation of the early Pleistocene archaeological record at Koobi Fora, Kenya
The earliest archaeological traces.
Life in the Pliocene: the primacy of gathering. A comment on On Becoming Human by N. M. Tanner. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1981.
Early hominids and fire at Chesowanja. Letter to 'Matters Arising'.
Aspects of the evolution of human behavior: an archaeological perspective.
Aspects of human evolution, Evolution from molecules to Men.
Bones in contention: competing explanations for the juxtaposition of Early Pleistocene artifacts and faunal remains.
Early Stages in the Evolution of Human Behavior: The Adaptive Significance of Stone Tools.
Review of Bones: Ancient Men and Modern Myths, By L. R. Binford. New York: Academic Press, 1981.
Some archaeological contributions towards understanding human evolution.
Art of Indoctrination. A review of The Creative Explosion: an Enquiry into the Origins of Art and Religion, by J. E. Pfeiffer. New York: Harper and Row, 1982.
The archaeology of human origins: studies of the lower Pleistocene in East Africa 1971-1981
The loss of robusticity transition. A review of The Mousterian Legacy: Human Biocultural Change in the Upper Pleistocene, edited by E. Trinkaus, Oxford: British Archaeological Reports, 1983.
Review of In Pursuit of the Past: Decoding the Archaeological Record, by L. R. Binford. New York: W. W. Norton, 1983.
Configurations of artifacts and bones at early Pleistocene sites in East Africa
The first human economy.
Origin of Human Distinctiveness. A report to National Research Council Commission on Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education.
Visitors' Guide to the Olorgesailie Prehistoric Site (with a brief explanation of its significance)
Ancestors for us all: towards broadening international participation in paleoanthropological research.
Using isotope chemistry to detect prehistoric diet. A report on 'Isotope assessment of Holocene human diets in the southwestern Cape, South Africa', a letter by J. Sealy and N. van der Merwe in Nature 315: 138-40
Foundation stones: early artifacts as indicators of activities and abilites.
One hundred years of paleoanthropology.
Long-term history of human diet.
The Archaeology of Human Origins. Papers by Glynn Isaac
Geological Context and Paleoenvironments.
Sites Stratified Within the KBS Tuff: Reports
The Stone Artefact Assemblages: A Comparative Study
Application of the observation and experiments to the Koobi Fora cases.
Plio-Pleistocene Archaeology. Koobi Fora Research Project